The Project Gutenberg EBook  A Christmas Carol,  Charles Dickens This                 .  You may copy it, give    re-use  under     Project          .gutenberg.net Title: A Christmas Carol A Ghost  of Christmas Author: Charles Dickens Release Date: August 11, 2004 [EBook #46] Last Updated:  4, 2018 Language:  Character  encoding: UTF-8  START   PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK  CHRISTMAS CAROL  Produced  Jose Menendez A CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE BEING  Ghost    by Charles  PREFACE I HAVE endeavoured in  Ghostly little book, to raise the Ghost of an Idea, which shall not put  readers out  humour with themselves, with each other, with  season, or with .  May it haunt their houses pleasantly, and no one wish to lay it.

Their faithful Friend and Servant, C. D.
December, 1843.



CONTENTS Stave I: Marley's Ghost Stave II: The First of  Three Spirits Stave III:  Second   Three  Stave IV: The Last of  Spirits Stave V:  End  It STAVE I: MARLEY'S GHOST MARLEY was dead: to begin . There is no doubt whatever about that. The register of his burial was signed by the clergyman, the clerk, the undertaker,  the chief mourner. Scrooge signed it: and Scrooge's name was good upon 'Change, for anything he chose to put his hand to. Old Marley was as dead  a door-nail.

Mind! I don't mean to say that I know, of my  knowledge, what there  particularly dead about a door-nail. I might have been inclined, myself, to regard a coffin-nail  the deadest piece  ironmongery in the trade. But the wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile; and my unhallowed hands shall not disturb it, or the Country's done for. You will therefore permit me to repeat, emphatically, that Marley was as dead  a door-nail.

Scrooge knew he was dead? Of course  did.
How could it  otherwise? Scrooge and he were partners for I don't  how many . Scrooge was his sole executor, his sole administrator,   assign, his  residuary legatee, his sole friend, and sole mourner. And even Scrooge was not so dreadfully cut up by the sad event, but that he was an excellent man of business on the very day of the funeral, and solemnised  with an undoubted bargain.

The mention of Marley's funeral brings me back   point  started from. There is no   Marley was dead. This must be distinctly understood, or nothing wonderful can come  the story I am going to relate. If we were not perfectly convinced that Hamlet's Father died before  play began,   be nothing more remarkable in  taking a stroll at night, in an easterly wind, upon his own ramparts, than there would be in any other middle-aged gentleman rashly turning out after dark in  breezy spot--say Saint Paul's Churchyard for instance-- literally to astonish his son's weak mind.

Scrooge never painted out Old Marley's name.
There it stood, years afterwards, above  warehouse door: Scrooge and Marley. The firm was known as Scrooge and Marley. Sometimes people new   business called Scrooge Scrooge, and sometimes Marley,  he answered to both names. It was all the same to him.

Oh! But he was a tight-fisted hand at  grind-stone, Scrooge! a squeezing, wrenching, grasping, scraping, clutching, covetous, old sinner! Hard and sharp  flint, from which no steel had ever struck out generous fire; secret, and self-contained, and solitary as an oyster. The cold within him froze his old features, nipped  pointed nose, shrivelled his cheek, stiffened  gait; made his eyes red, his thin lips blue; and spoke out shrewdly in his grating . A frosty rime was on his head, and on  eyebrows, and his wiry chin. He carried his own low temperature always about with him; he iced his office in the dog-days; and didn't thaw it one degree at Christmas.

External heat and cold had little influence  Scrooge. No warmth could warm, no wintry weather chill him. No wind that blew was bitterer than he, no falling snow was more intent upon its purpose, no pelting rain less open to entreaty. Foul weather didn't know where  have him. The heaviest rain, and snow, and hail, and sleet, could boast of the advantage over him in only  respect. They often "came down" handsomely, and Scrooge never did.

Nobody ever stopped him in the street to say, with gladsome looks, "My dear Scrooge, how are you? When will you come to see me?" No beggars implored   bestow a trifle, no children asked him what it was o'clock,  man or  ever once in all  life inquired the way  such and   place, of Scrooge. Even the blind men's dogs appeared to know him; and when they  him coming on, would tug their owners into doorways  up courts;  then would wag   as though they said, "No eye at  is better  an evil eye, dark master!" But what did Scrooge care! It was the very  he liked. To edge his way along the crowded paths of life, warning all human sympathy  keep its distance, was what the knowing ones call "nuts" to Scrooge.

Once upon  time--of all  good days in the year, on Christmas Eve--old Scrooge sat busy in his counting-house. It was cold, bleak, biting weather: foggy withal: and he could hear the people in  court outside, go wheezing up and down, beating  hands upon  breasts, and stamping   upon  pavement stones to warm . The city clocks had only  gone three, but it was quite dark already-- it had not  light all day--and candles  flaring   windows of  neighbouring offices, like ruddy smears upon  palpable brown air. The fog came pouring  at every chink and keyhole,  was so dense without, that although the court was of the narrowest,  houses opposite  mere phantoms.
To see the dingy cloud come drooping down, obscuring everything, one might have thought that Nature lived hard by, and was brewing on a large scale.

The door of Scrooge's counting-house was open that he might keep  eye upon his clerk, who in a dismal little cell beyond, a sort  tank, was copying letters. Scrooge had a very small fire, but the clerk's fire was so very much smaller  it looked  one coal. But he couldn't replenish it, for Scrooge kept the coal-box in his own room; and so surely as the clerk came in with the shovel, the master predicted that it  be necessary for them  part. Wherefore the clerk put on his white comforter,  tried to warm himself at the candle; in which effort, not being a man  a strong imagination,  failed.

"A merry Christmas, uncle! God  you!" cried a cheerful voice. It was the voice  Scrooge's nephew, who came upon him so quickly that this was the first intimation he had  his approach.

"Bah!" said Scrooge, "Humbug!" He had so heated himself with rapid walking in  fog and frost, this nephew of Scrooge's, that  was all in a glow; his   ruddy and handsome;  eyes sparkled, and his breath smoked again.

"Christmas a humbug, uncle!" said Scrooge's nephew. "You don't mean that, I am sure?" "I do," said Scrooge. "Merry Christmas! What right have    merry? What reason have   be merry? You're poor enough." "Come, then," returned the nephew gaily. "What right have you   dismal? What reason   to  morose? You're rich enough." Scrooge having no better answer ready on  spur   moment, said, "Bah!" again; and followed it up  "Humbug." "Don't be cross, uncle!" said the nephew.

"What else can I be," returned  uncle, "when  live in such  world of fools as this? Merry Christmas! Out upon merry Christmas! What's Christmas time to you but a time for paying bills without money; a time for finding yourself a year older, but not an hour richer;    balancing  books and having every item in 'em through a round dozen of months presented dead against you? If I could work my will," said Scrooge indignantly, "every idiot who goes about with 'Merry Christmas' on his lips, should be boiled with his own pudding,  buried  a stake of holly through  heart. He should!" "Uncle!" pleaded the nephew.

"Nephew!" returned the uncle sternly, "keep Christmas   own way, and let me keep it in mine." "Keep it!" repeated Scrooge's nephew. "But you don't keep it." "Let  leave it alone, then," said Scrooge. "Much good may it do you! Much good it has ever  you!" "There are many things from which I might have derived good, by which I  not profited, I dare say," returned the nephew. "Christmas among  rest. But I am sure I have always thought of Christmas time,  it has come round--apart  the veneration due  its sacred name and origin, if anything belonging  it can  apart from that--as a good time; a kind, forgiving, charitable, pleasant time; the only  I know of, in the long calendar of  year,  men and  seem by one consent  open their shut-up hearts freely, and  think of people below them as if  really were fellow-passengers to the grave,  not another race of creatures bound on other journeys. And therefore, uncle, though  has never put a scrap  gold or   my pocket, I believe   has done me good,  will  me good; and I say, God  it!" The clerk in the Tank involuntarily applauded.
Becoming immediately sensible of the impropriety, he poked the fire, and extinguished the last frail spark for ever.

"Let me hear another sound from you," said Scrooge, "and you'll keep your Christmas by losing your situation! You're quite a powerful speaker, sir," he added, turning  his nephew. "I wonder you don't go into Parliament." "Don't be angry, uncle. Come! Dine with  to-morrow." Scrooge said that  would see him--yes, indeed  . He went the whole length   expression, and said that he would see him in that extremity first.

"But why?" cried Scrooge's nephew. "Why?" "Why did  get married?" said Scrooge.

"Because I fell in ." "Because you fell in love!" growled Scrooge, as if that were the only one thing in  world more ridiculous than a merry Christmas. "Good afternoon!" "Nay, uncle,  you never came to   before that happened. Why give it as a reason  not coming now?" "Good afternoon,"  Scrooge.

"I want nothing from you; I ask nothing of you; why cannot we be friends?" "Good afternoon,"  Scrooge.

"I am sorry, with all my heart, to find you so resolute. We have never  any quarrel, to which  have been a party. But I have made the trial in homage  Christmas, and I'll keep my Christmas humour to the last. So A Merry Christmas, uncle!" "Good afternoon!" said Scrooge.

"And A Happy New Year!" "Good afternoon!" said Scrooge.

His nephew left  room without an angry word, notwithstanding. 