MY OLD MAN


I guess looking at it now my old man was cut out for a fat guy, one
of those regular little roly fat guys you see around, but he sure
never got that way, except a little toward the last, and then it
wasn’t his fault, he was riding over the jumps only and he could
afford to carry plenty of weight then. I remember the way he’d pull
on a rubber shirt over a couple of jerseys and a big sweat shirt over
that and get me to run with him in the forenoon in the hot sun. He’d
have maybe taken a trial trip with one of Razzo’s skins early in the
morning after just getting in from Torino at four o’clock in the
morning and beating it out to the stables in a cab and then with the
dew all over everything and the sun just starting to get going I’d
help him pull off his boots and he’d get into a pair of sneakers and
all these sweaters and we’d start out.

“Come on kid” he’d say, stepping up and down on his toes in front of
the jock’s dressing room, “let’s get moving”.

Then we’d start off jogging around the infield once maybe with him
ahead running nice and then turn out the gate and along one of those
roads with all the trees along both sides of them that run out from
San Siro. I’d go ahead of him when we hit the road and I could run
pretty stout and I’d look around and he’d be jogging easy just behind
me and after a little while I’d look around again and he’d begun to
sweat. Sweating heavy and he’d just be dogging it along with his eyes
on my back, but when he’d catch me looking at him he’d grin and say,
“Sweating plenty?” When my old man grinned nobody could help but grin
too. We’d keep right on running out toward the mountains and then my
old man would yell “Hey Joe!” and I’d look back and he’d be sitting
under a tree with a towel he’d had around his waist wrapped around
his neck.

I’d come back and sit down beside him and he’d pull a rope out of his
pocket and start skipping rope out in the sun with the sweat pouring
off his face and him skipping rope out in the white dust with the
rope going cloppetty cloppety clop clop clop and the sun hotter and
him working harder up and down a patch of the road. Say it was a
treat to see my old man skip rope too. He could whirr it fast or lop
it slow and fancy. Say you ought to have seen wops look at us
sometimes when they’d come by going into town walking along with big
white steers hauling the cart. They sure looked as though they
thought the old man was nuts. He’d start the rope whirring till
they’d stop dead still and watch him, then give the steers a cluck
and a poke with the goad and get going again.

When I’d sit watching him working out in the hot sun I sure felt fond
of him. He sure was fun and he done his work so hard and he’d finish
up with a regular whirring that’d drive the sweat out on his face
like water and then sling the rope at the tree and come over and sit
down with me and lean back against the tree with the towel and a
sweater wrapped around his neck.

“Sure is hell keeping it down, Joe” he’d say and lean back and shut
his eyes and breath long and deep, “it aint like when you’re a kid”.
Then he’d get up before he started to cool and we’d jog along back to
the stables. That’s the way it was keeping down to weight. He was
worried all the time. Most jocks can just about ride off all they
want to. A jock loses about a kilo every time he rides, but my old
man was sort of dried out and he couldn’t keep down his kilos without
all that running.

I remember once at San Siro, Regoli, a little wop that was riding for
Buzoni came out across the paddock going to the bar for something
cool and flicking his boots with his whip, after he’d just weighed in
and my old man had just weighed in too and came out with the saddle
under his arm looking red faced and tired and too big for his silks
and he stood there looking at young Regoli standing up to the
outdoors bar cool and kid looking and I says, “What’s the matter
Dad?” cause I thought maybe Regoli had bumped him or something and he
just looked at Regoli and said, “Oh to hell with it” and went on to
the dressing room.