MY OLD MAN I guess looking at it now my old man was cut out for a fat guy, one of those regular little roly fat   see around, but he sure never got that way, except a little toward  last, and then  wasn’t his fault,  was riding over the jumps only and he could afford  carry plenty  weight then. I remember the way he’d pull on a rubber shirt over a couple  jerseys and a big sweat shirt over that and get me to run with him in  forenoon in the hot sun. He’d have maybe taken a trial trip with one  Razzo’s skins early in  morning after just getting in from Torino at four o’clock in the  and beating it   the stables in a cab and then  the dew all over everything and the sun just starting  get going I’d help him pull off his boots and he’d get into a pair  sneakers  all these sweaters and we’d start out.

“Come on kid” he’d say, stepping up and down on his toes in front  the jock’s dressing room, “let’s get moving”.

Then we’d start off jogging around the infield once maybe with him ahead running nice and then turn  the gate and along one of those roads with  the trees along both  of  that run out from San Siro. I’d go ahead of  when we hit the road and  could run pretty stout and I’d look around and he’d be jogging easy just behind  and after  little while I’d look  again  he’d begun  . Sweating heavy and he’d just be dogging  along with his eyes on my back, but when he’d catch me looking   he’d grin and say, “Sweating plenty?” When my old man grinned nobody could    too. We’d keep right on running out  the mountains and then my old man would yell “Hey Joe!” and I’d look back and he’d  sitting under a tree with  towel he’d had around  waist wrapped   neck.

I’d come back and sit  beside   he’d pull a rope out of his pocket and start skipping rope out in the sun with the sweat pouring off his face and  skipping   in  white dust with the rope going cloppetty cloppety clop clop clop and  sun hotter and him working harder up and  a patch  the road. Say it was a treat to see my old man skip rope . He could whirr it fast or lop  slow and fancy. Say you ought  have seen wops look at us sometimes  they’d come  going into town walking along with big white steers hauling the cart. They sure looked as   thought  old man was nuts. He’d start the rope whirring till they’d stop dead still and watch him, then give the steers a cluck  a poke with the goad and  going again.

When I’d sit watching him working out in the hot sun I sure felt fond  him. He sure was fun and he done his work so hard and he’d finish up with a regular whirring that’d drive the sweat  on his face like water and then sling the rope at  tree and come over and sit down with me  lean back against the  with the towel and a sweater wrapped  his neck.

“Sure is hell keeping  down, Joe” he’d  and  back and shut his  and breath long and deep, “it aint like when you’re a kid”.
Then he’d get up before  started to cool and we’d jog along back  the stables. That’s the way it was keeping down to weight. He was worried all the . Most jocks can just about ride  all they  to. A jock loses about a kilo every time he rides, but my old man was sort  dried out and he couldn’t keep down his kilos without all that running.

I remember once at San Siro, Regoli, a little wop that was riding  Buzoni came  across  paddock going to the bar for something cool and flicking his boots with  whip, after he’d just weighed in and my old man  just weighed  too  came out with the saddle under  arm looking red faced  tired and too big for his silks and he stood  looking at young Regoli standing up to the outdoors bar cool  kid looking and I says, “What’s   Dad?” cause  thought maybe Regoli had bumped him or  and  just looked at Regoli  said, “Oh to hell  it” and went  to the dressing .
