UP IN MICHIGAN Jim Gilmore came to Hortons Bay from Canada. He bought the blacksmith shop from old  Horton. Jim was short  dark with big mustaches   hands. He was a  horseshoer and did not look much like  blacksmith even with his leather apron on. He lived upstairs above the blacksmith shop and took his meals at A. J. Smith’s.

Liz Coates worked  Smith’s. Mrs. Smith,  was a very large clean woman, said Liz Coates was the neatest girl she’d  . Liz had good  and always wore clean gingham aprons  Jim noticed that her hair  always neat behind. He liked her face because it  so jolly but  never thought about .

Liz liked Jim very . She liked it the way he walked over  the shop and often went  the kitchen door  watch for him to start down  road. She liked it about his mustache. She liked it about how white his teeth  when  smiled. She liked  very  that  didn’t look like a blacksmith. She liked it how much A. J. Smith and Mrs. Smith liked Jim. One day she found that  liked it the  the hair was black on his arms and how white     tanned line when  washed up in the washbasin outside  house.
Liking that made  feel funny.

Hortons Bay, the town, was only five houses on the main road between Boyne City  Charlevoix. There was the general store and postoffice with  high false front  maybe a wagon hitched out in front, Smith’s house, Stroud’s house, Fox’s house, Horton’s  and Van Hoosen’s . The houses were in a big grove of elm  and the road  very sandy. There was farming country and timber each way up  road. Up the road a ways was the Methodist church and down the  the other direction was the township school. The blacksmith shop was painted red and faced the school.

A steep sandy road ran down the hill to the bay   timber.
From Smith’s back door you could look out across the woods that ran down  the lake and across  bay. It was very beautiful in  spring and summer, the bay blue and bright and usually whitecaps on  lake out beyond the point from  breeze blowing from Charlevoix and Lake Michigan. From Smith’s back door Liz could see ore barges  out in the lake going toward Boyne City. When she looked at them they didn’t    moving at  but if she went in and dried some more dishes and then came  again  would  out of sight beyond the point.

All the time now Liz was thinking about Jim Gilmore. He didn’t seem  notice her much. He talked  the shop  A. J. Smith and about the Republican Party and about James G. Blaine. In the evenings he read the Toledo Blade and the Grand  paper by the lamp in  front  or went out spearing fish in  bay with a jacklight with A. J. Smith. In the fall he and Smith and Charley Wyman took a wagon and tent, grub, axes, their rifles and two dogs and went on a trip  the pine plains beyond Vanderbilt deer hunting. Liz and Mrs. Smith were cooking for four days for them before  started. Liz wanted to  something special for Jim to take but she didn’t finally because she  afraid  ask Mrs. Smith for  eggs and flour and afraid if she bought  Mrs. Smith would catch her cooking. It would have been all right with Mrs. Smith but Liz was afraid.

All the time Jim was gone on the deer hunting  Liz thought about him. It was awful while he  gone. She couldn’t sleep well from thinking  him but  discovered it was fun to think about  too. If she let herself  it was better. The night before they  to come back she didn’t sleep at all, that is  didn’t think she slept because   all mixed up  a  about not sleeping and really not sleeping. When she saw the wagon coming down  road  felt weak and sick sort  inside. She couldn’t wait till she saw Jim and it seemed as  everything would  all  when he came.
The wagon stopped outside under the big elm and Mrs. Smith and Liz went out. All the men  beards and there  three deer in the back of the wagon, their thin  sticking stiff over  edge   wagon box. Mrs. Smith kissed Alonzo and he hugged her. Jim said “Hello Liz.” and grinned. Liz hadn’t known just  would happen when Jim got back  she was sure it  be something. Nothing had happened. The men were just home that was all. Jim pulled the burlap sacks   deer  Liz looked  . One was a big buck. It was stiff and hard   out   wagon.
