It   truth  acknowledged, that a single man in possession  a good fortune,   in want  a wife.

However little known the feelings or views  such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so   in  minds  the surrounding families,  he is considered the rightful property  some one or other  their daughters.

"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his  to  one day, "have  heard  Netherfield Park is let  last?" Mr. Bennet replied that  had not.

"But it is," returned she; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and  told  all about ." Mr. Bennet made no answer.

"Do you    know who has taken it?" cried his wife impatiently.

"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection  hearing ." This was invitation enough.

"Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken  a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that  came down  Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much delighted  it,  he agreed  Mr.
Morris immediately; that  is to  possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end  next ." "What is his name?" "Bingley." "Is he married or single?" "Oh! Single, my dear, to  sure! A single man of large fortune; four or  thousand a . What a fine thing for our girls!" "How so? How can  affect them?" "My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome! You must  that   thinking of his marrying one of them." "Is that his design in settling here?" "Design! Nonsense, how can  talk so! But  is very likely that  _may_ fall    one  them, and therefore you must   as soon  he comes." "I see  occasion  that. You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will  still better,  as  are as handsome  any  them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party." "My dear,  flatter . I certainly _have_ had my share  beauty,   do not pretend   anything extraordinary now.
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought  give over thinking of her own beauty." "In such cases, a woman has  often much beauty  think ." "But, my dear, you must indeed go and  Mr. Bingley when  comes  the neighbourhood." "It is more than I engage for, I assure ." "But consider your . Only think what an establishment it    one  them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined  go, merely  that account, for in general, you know, they visit no newcomers. Indeed you must go, for  will be impossible  _us_ to visit him if you do ." "You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare  Mr. Bingley will be very glad to  you; and I will send a  lines by you  assure   my hearty consent  his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy."
