OUT OF SEASON On the four lira he had earned by spading the hotel garden he got quite drunk. He saw the young gentleman coming down  path and spoke   mysteriously. The young gentleman said  had not eaten yet but would be ready  go as   lunch was finished. Forty minutes or an .

At the cantina near   they trusted him for three more grappas because he was so confident and mysterious about  job for the afternoon. It was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind clouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day for trout fishing.

The young gentleman came out   hotel and asked him about the rods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? Yes, said Peduzzi, let her follow us. The young gentleman went back into  hotel and spoke   wife. He and Peduzzi started down the . The young gentleman had a musette over  shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife,  looked as young  the  gentleman and was wearing mountain  and  blue beret, start out to follow them down the road carrying the fishing rods unjointed one in each . Peduzzi didn’t like her to be way back there. Signorina, he called, winking at the young gentleman, come up here and walk  us. Signora come  . Let us all walk together. Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down  street of Cortina together.

The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. Signorina, Peduzzi called tenderly, come  here with us. The young gentleman looked back and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind, and walked up.

Everyone they met walking through  main street of the  Peduzzi greeted elaborately. _Buon’ di Arturo!_ Tipping his hat. The bank clerk stared   from the  of  Fascist café. Groups of three and four people standing  front  the shops stared   three. The workmen in their stone-powdered jackets working on the foundations of the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spoke or gave  sign  them  the town beggar, lean and old with a spittle thickened beard, who lifted his hat as they .

Peduzzi stopped  front  a store  the window   bottles and brought his empty grappa bottle from an inside pocket of  old military coat. A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora, something, something  drink. He gestured  the bottle. It was a wonderful day. Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A little marsala? The wife stood sullenly. You’ll have to play up to this, she said. I can’t understand a word he says. He’s drunk isn’t he? The young gentleman appeared not  hear Peduzzi. He was thinking what in hell makes him say Marsala. That’s what Max Beerbohm drinks.

_Geld,_ Peduzzi said finally, taking hold  the young gentleman’s sleeve. _Lire._ He smiled reluctant to press the subject but needing to bring the young gentleman into action.

The young gentleman took out  pocket book and gave  a ten lire note. Peduzzi went up the steps to  door of  Speciality of Domestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked.

It is closed  two, someone passing in the  said scornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. Never mind,  said, we can get it at  Concordia.

They walked down  road to the Concordia three abreast. On  porch of the Concordia where  rusty bobsleds were stacked the young gentleman said, _Was wollen sie?_ Peduzzi handed him the ten lira note folded over and over. Nothing, he said, Anything. He was embarrassed. Marsala maybe. I don’t know. Marsala? The door of the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and the wife.
Three marsalas, said the y. g. to the girl behind  pastry counter.
Two you mean? she asked. No, he said, one for a _vecchio._ Oh, she said, a _vecchio,_ and laughed getting down the bottle. She poured out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife was sitting    under  line of newspapers on sticks. The y. g.
put one of  marsalas in front  . You might as  drink it, he said. Maybe it’ll make  feel better. She sat and looked  the glass. The y. g. went outside the door with a glass for Peduzzi but could  see him.

I don’t  where he is, he said coming back into  pastry room carrying the glass.

He wanted a quart of it, said the wife.

How much is a quarter litre, the y. g. asked the girl.

Of the bianco? One lira.

No, of the marsala. Put these  in too, he said giving  his own glass and the one poured  Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litre wine measure  a funnel. A bottle  carry it, said  y. g.

She went to hunt for a bottle. It all amused her.

I’m sorry you feel   Tiny, he said, I’m  I talked the way  did at lunch. We were both getting at the  thing from different .

It doesn’t make any difference,  said. None of  makes any difference.

Are you too cold, he asked. I wish you’d worn another sweater.

I’ve got on three sweaters.

The girl came  with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala into . The y. g. paid five lira more. They went out  the door.
The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and  at  other end out   wind and holding the rods.

Come on,  said, I will carry the rods. What difference  it  if anybody sees them. No one will trouble us. No one   any trouble   in Cortina. I know  at the _municipio._ I have been a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. What if  is forbidden  fish? Not  thing. Nothing. No trouble. Big trout I tell you. Lots of them.

They were walking down  hill toward  river. The town was in back of them. The sun had gone under and it  sprinkling rain.
There, said Peduzzi, pointing to a girl in the doorway  a house they passed. My daughter.

His doctor, the wife said, has he got to show us  doctor?  said his daughter, said the y. g.

The girl went  the  as Peduzzi pointed.

They walked down the hill across  fields and then turned to follow the river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly  much winking  knowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught  breath across the wind. Once he nudged her in the . Part of the time he talked  D’Ampezzo dialect and sometimes in Tyroler German dialect.
He could not make out which the young gentleman and his wife understood the best so he was being bi-lingual. But as  young gentleman said _Ja Ja_ Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler.
The young gentleman and the wife understood nothing.OUT OF SEASON On the four lira he had earned  spading the hotel garden he got quite drunk. He saw the young gentleman  down    spoke   mysteriously. The young gentleman  he had not eaten yet but would be ready to  as   lunch was finished. Forty minutes or an .

At  cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three more grappas because  was so confident and mysterious about his job for the afternoon. It was a windy day  the sun coming out from behind clouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day for trout fishing.

The young gentleman came out  the hotel and asked him about the rods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? Yes, said Peduzzi, let  follow us. The young gentleman went back into  hotel and spoke to his wife. He and Peduzzi started down the . The young gentleman had a musette over  shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife, who looked as young  the young gentleman and was wearing mountain boots and   beret, start out  follow them down the  carrying the fishing rods unjointed one in each . Peduzzi didn’t like her to  way back there. Signorina, he called, winking  the young gentleman, come up here and walk with us. Signora come up here. Let us all walk together. Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the street of Cortina together.

The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. Signorina, Peduzzi called tenderly, come up here with us. The young gentleman looked back and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind, and walked .

Everyone  met walking through  main  of the  Peduzzi greeted elaborately. _Buon’ di Arturo!_ Tipping his hat. The bank clerk stared   from the door of  Fascist café. Groups of three and four people standing in    shops stared  the three. The workmen in their stone-powdered jackets working on  foundations  the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spoke  gave any   them except the town beggar, lean  old with  spittle thickened beard, who lifted  hat as they .

Peduzzi stopped  front  a store with the window full  bottles  brought his empty grappa bottle  an inside pocket of his old military coat. A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora, something, something to drink. He gestured with the bottle. It was a wonderful day. Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A little marsala? The wife stood sullenly. You’ll have to play up to this, she said. I can’t understand a word he . He’s drunk isn’t he? The young gentleman appeared not  hear Peduzzi. He was thinking what in hell makes him say Marsala. That’s what Max Beerbohm drinks.

_Geld,_ Peduzzi said finally, taking hold   young gentleman’s sleeve. _Lire._ He smiled reluctant to press the subject but needing to bring  young gentleman into action.

The young gentleman took out  pocket book  gave   ten lire note. Peduzzi went up the   the door of the Speciality of Domestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked.

It is closed until two, someone passing  the  said scornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. Never mind, he said, we can get it at the Concordia.

They walked down the  to the Concordia three abreast. On the porch of the Concordia where the rusty bobsleds were stacked the young gentleman said, _Was wollen sie?_ Peduzzi handed  the ten lira note folded over and over. Nothing,  said, Anything. He was embarrassed. Marsala maybe. I don’t know. Marsala? The door  the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and  wife.
Three marsalas, said the y. g. to the girl behind the pastry counter.
Two you mean? she asked. No, he said, one for a _vecchio._ Oh, she said, a _vecchio,_ and laughed getting down the bottle. She poured out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife was sitting  a  under  line  newspapers on sticks. The y. g.
put one of the marsalas  front  her. You might as  drink it,  said. Maybe it’ll make you feel better. She sat and looked   glass. The y. g. went  the door   glass for Peduzzi but could not see him.

I don’t  where  is, he said coming back into  pastry room carrying the glass.

He wanted a quart of it, said the wife.

How much  a quarter litre, the y. g. asked the girl.

Of the bianco? One lira.

No, of the marsala. Put these two in too, he said giving  his own glass and the one poured  Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litre wine measure with a funnel. A bottle  carry it,  the y. g.

She went  hunt  a bottle. It all amused .

I’m sorry you feel so rotten Tiny, he said, I’m sorry I talked the way   at lunch. We were both getting at the same thing from different .

It doesn’t make  difference,  said. None of it makes any difference.

Are you too cold, he asked. I wish you’d worn another sweater.

I’ve got on three sweaters.

The girl came in with  very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala into . The y. g. paid five lira more. They went out of the door.
The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and  at  other end out   wind and holding the rods.

Come on, he said, I will carry the rods. What difference does   if anybody sees them. No one will trouble us. No one will  any trouble   in Cortina. I know  at the _municipio._ I have been a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. What if it is forbidden  fish? Not a thing. Nothing. No trouble. Big trout I  . Lots of them.

They were walking down the hill toward  river. The town was in back  . The sun had gone under  it  sprinkling .
There, said Peduzzi, pointing to  girl in the doorway of a house they passed. My daughter.

His doctor, the wife said, has he got to show us his doctor? He said his daughter, said  y. g.

The girl went into  house as Peduzzi pointed.

They walked down  hill across the fields and then  to follow  river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly  much winking and knowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught his  across  wind. Once he nudged her   ribs. Part of the time he talked  D’Ampezzo dialect and sometimes  Tyroler German dialect.
He could not make  which the young gentleman and  wife understood the best so he was being bi-lingual. But as  young gentleman  _Ja Ja_ Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler.
The young gentleman and  wife understood nothing.
